Well, weíre really stuck in it now.
Of course, when you cover Nintendo platforms
for a living, you get used to it.
It comes to every console, this thick and
suffocating nothingness that so abruptly surroundsóand
for some definesóan otherwise excellent system.
The GameCube suffered it in 2005.
It hit the Nintendo 64 years earlier, and
again this year, another console has succumbed
to the great and terrible Nintendo Drought.
As you might have noticed from the Wii games
weíve been reviewing this year, it can make
business unbearably slow.
But every once in a while, something breaks
through.
Something you didnít expect.
Something that offers a refreshing little
burst of rain to a parched gaming landscape.
Something like this.
Its significance may be a bit inflated due
to the circumstances, but even in the Wiiís
glory days, this wouldíve been a noteworthy
game.
In 2011, itís one of the consoleís very
best releases.
Itís escapeVektor: Chapter 1.
The surprise of escapeVektor is multifaceted.
First, you canít buy this one in stores.
escapeVektor is a WiiWare exclusive, which
prompted some here at the underwater base
to ask, ìSo they still make WiiWare games?î
But whatís more surprising than its format
are its components.
Even in an age when retro has become a new
trend, Iíve never seen a game that does quite
what this one does.
escapeVektor isnít just notable because itís
a good Wii game in 2011óand a WiiWare game,
no lessóbut also because itís a good game,
period.
Arcade fiends have probably deduced this by
now, but escapeVektor is a unique combination
of classic retro concepts.
It merges the space-claiming gameplay of a
game like Qix with the frantic pursuits characteristic
of Pac-Man, resulting in a new experience
that pays homage to not only its two primary
components, but classic gaming in general.
escapeVektor tells the tale of Vektor, a hero
who is trying to escape.
Trapped inside a strange computer, Vektor
is forced to navigate complex mazes of gadgets
and circuitry, desperately trying to escape
this surreal digital realm.
Like fellow WiiWare standouts the BIT.TRIP
games, escapeVektor presents a simple focus
on old-school gameplay and wraps it up with
gorgeous minimalist presentation.
The simplicity of the graphics creates the
perfect vibe for escapeVektor, and thereís
even a sense of foreboding as you try to escape
the your artificial incarcerator.
Of course, to do so, youíll have to do a
lot of running.
Vektor travels on lines, and you have to guide
him through these mazes while highlighting
every line.
You can fight back by blowing up completed
squares, but the primary goal is to reach
the exit that appears once youíve successfully
filled in the maze.
Like the arcade classics itís based on, escapeVektor
is easy to play but very hard to master...and
almost impossible to put down.
The design is elegant and smart, giving you
multiple exits to find, high scores to beat
and even badges to earn...as if the core gameplay
wasnít enough to get you hooked.
escapeVektor isnít the first WiiWare game
the team at Nnooo has done.
They also developed the WiiWare launch title
Pop, which had loads of style...but not quite
the same amount of substance.
With this, theyíve evened the levels.
escapeVektor is a standout not only for WiiWare,
but for the Wii in general.
And in a drought season
for Nintendo, it gives us the perfect chance
to run in the digital rain.